---
layout: post
title: April 25th, 2014 roundup
author: Paul Ivanov
---
### While comrade Clark was away...

We had a great meeting with 11 people attending!

[Jess Hamrick](http://www.jesshamrick.com/) gave us an awesome overview of what
it was like to attend her first [PyCon ](https://us.pycon.org/2014/). She told
us about the overall format, some of the interesting talks she caught, but most
importantly, how great it was to interact with the larger Python
community! The [videos](http://pyvideo.org/category/50/pycon-us-2014) are
already up. Here's [Asheesh Laroia's entertaining talk about Python
Packaging](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eLPiPHr6TVI) which Jess recommended.

First-time attendee Martin, who is brand new to Python, asked about reading 55
thousand emails and starting to work with them. I ([Paul
Ivanov](http://pirsquared.org/blog)) suggested using the email module Moshe
suggested [OpenRefine.org](http://OpenRefine.org) as an option of munging the
data, too.

It was also [Matt Rocklin](http://matthewrocklin.com/blog/)'s first time at the
Workers' Party. He gave us a quick spiel about
[PyToolz](https://github.com/pytoolz/toolz) and
[CyToolz](https://github.com/pytoolz/cytoolz), two modules which bring even more
functional programming ideas to Python.

Antony told us about
[faulthandler](https://docs.python.org/dev/library/faulthandler.html), a Python
3.3+ module which allows you print the stack trace and more information even if
your process is dying. Unfortunately, it doesn't really work on Windows, which
Antony is forced to use due to proprietary driver software for the microscope he
uses in his research and we discussed a possible workaround.

Next week, a bunch of us (Min, Thomas, Matt, and Paul) are giving talks at
[PyData Silicon Valley](http://pydata.org/sv2014/schedule). If you haven't
registered, you can use the code CU@PyData to get 20% off of registration.
