---
layout: post
title: MOOCs and SciPy
author: Dav Clark
---
### A call for submissions to SciPy 2014

The deadline for [SciPy 2014](https://conference.scipy.org/scipy2014/)
appproaches! It's a great, growing conference, with an emphasis on the following
topics (espeically the first two this year):

 - **Education**
 - **Geospatial data**
 - Astronomy and astrophysics
 - Bioinformatics
 - Geophysics
 - Vision, Visualization, and Imaging
 - Computational Social Science and Digital Humanities
 - Engineering

There is also a [**Diversity
Goal**](https://conference.scipy.org/scipy2014/diversity/). Anyone up for
organizing something for women, people of color, or other under-represented
groups?

Abstract submissions are due this Friday, but if that's a deal-breaker, we will
probably be able to accomodate later submissions (feel free to contact me or
Katy Huff about it).

### MOOCs this week

And now, a selfish topic request this week: the D-Lab is looking at becoming
a resource for MOOC (1) data on campus. I'd invite folks who are engaged with
online courseware to talk about what they've been doing. This could include
things that Raymond is doing with the new bCourses system (our campus course
management portal). Or particularly folks who've been working with EdX systems!

(1) MOOC = “Massive Open Online Course” You've probably heard of some of them,
like Kahn Academy, EdX (& our local BerkeleyX), Codecademy, Coursera, etc.

### A place for beginners

Lastly, please invite folks who are beginners. The idea is for the Python
Workers' Party to support the development of our community! People can treat it
like a "study hall" to follow a MOOC or book and ask for help if they get stuck,
or ask for help with their projects.

### What happened

Raymond talked about his experiences with bCourses (which runs on
[Canvas](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms), which is produced by
[Instructure](http://www.instructure.com)). He was initialy motivated to do
automated grading, but it's been harder to do than to just have his TA do it.

So, he's been working on being able to do something like clickers during his
class, although some of the response features of Canvas are still in beta. I.e.,
students can provide answers to questions during class, and then you can
programmatically access what they respond.

There's a REST API, and Raymonds working on a library to work with it. Let him
know if you want to join the effort!
